Ranter Social, A Web-based Third Party Twitter Client.

Purpose:

The purpose of this software is to expand on Twitter’s existing capabilities through the client. Twitter provides a lot of existing functionality, but it can always be improved. One problem that Twitter currently experiences is how it handles longer topics and posts. Tweets are limited to the 280 character limit, forcing the users to use alternative methods to create a longer post. This can be resolved through several means already, whether it is through Twitter’s own client or Tall Tweets (which allow you to post a thread), using another social media platform built for longer messages, or using a service called Twitlonger. 

Twitter currently offers poor solutions to these. While it does display threads if you focus on the tweet, it is still fragmented by Twitter’s existing UI, focusing on features that most users will ignore. The user can make a thread, but the thread still has to be carefully edited by the user to ensure each fragment is within the limit.

While Twitlonger does provide a method for making longer tweets, the users still have to inconveniently load up another webpage in order to see the text instead of directly in their client. What this project aims on doing is improving the longer tweet experience by having the full tweet in one click in the client. The goal is to fix this inconvenient problem. There can be one client where the user can both read their tweets and post longer tweets without needing to open multiple tabs or scroll down a webpage for longer threads. They should also be able to write tweets longer than normal in the client in order to not disrupt their workflow. 

This task is one interpretation of the task assigned to a student group in CSE 4550-03 of Fall 2021. The project objective is to extend existing social media platforms through recreating/reusing apis. The client may request for more additional possible features in this project. This student group is composed of 5 soon-to-be software engineers. The client is Dr. Bilal Khan, who requests that this group reimplement a social media platform to include new functionality.